# Week 4 Day 1

## SQL Databases
Data types: 
- CHAR vs VARCHAR
    - Char is when it will always be the same length (for example, postal codes)
- SERIAL - make all primary keys serial to start with (so no 2 numbers can be the same)
- DATE - uses ISO 86-01 format (2018-04-26T21:36:28+00:00)

psql  (what we use to run our database)
to connect to database while already in psql: \c
Need semi colon to end query

Join
- Inner join skips values that don't match ON condition

# Week 4 Day 2

## SQL from our apps
Computer science we'll have a gap in: how does a network work? CPU.

TCP connection - connects psql and pg server

Port for postgress in 5432 (by default)

Double and single quotes are different in SQL
- Single quote: use for data

## Migrations
Rollback only rolls back the latest
We only change migrations where we haven't committed it yet

## Planning your mid-term
1. Data
    - Where is data coming from? Are users typing it in? Is it coming from a database?
    - Can you correlate data to something else (providing context)
    - How can you pivot data to add value (presenting it in a valuable way)
    - Store data the way you need to query your data
2. Features vs. benefits
    - Universal values
3. User stories
    - Document benefits
    - "As a ____, I want to _______ because ____."
    - "As a ____, I should be able to _____ because _____."
    - User scenario (added after):
        - "Given ____ when ______ then _______."
4. ERD
5. Tech choices
    - Decide if you're going to deply your app. Two options:
        - Local host
        - Heroku
    - Server framework (use node and express for mid-term. don't forget about npm!)
    - Routes
        - GET vs POST vs PUT/PATCH vs DELETE
        - Params in URLs?
        - RESTful conventions
        - If tables are nouns, routes are verbs
        - Which ones are http routes, which are ajax
    - Wireframe (for all the get routes)
        - People read in F shape
        - Bottom right is the least seen part of the page
    - Storyboarding
        - Telling a story in a chronological order
6. Design
    - Layout of data matters
    - Resources: Dribbble, FolioFocus, Smashing, Bhance
    - UI framework
        - Grids make things easier - a lot out there! (Bootstrap and Foundation are the biggest)
7. Scaffolding
    - Setting up your program - get the tech installed
    - Git repo
    - Download/Install resources
    - Use CDN links whenever possible
    - Make sure your app loads (after installing things)
    - Push app to Githum so team can clone
    - Decide on team responsibilities
8. Divide tasks
    - Can be divided according to:
        - Front-end, back-end, APIs, JS, Database, Feature
        - Paired, Migrations, Responsive, Deployment, whatever works!


MVP = minimum viable product

## Promises
- Promise.all => Resolves with an array of results

## Building a developer resume
Tools:
- Creddle
- Canva (more flexibility with template)
- Ineedaresu.me
- Github Pages- caution: use CSS and html skills to build it

Contact info: Don't include location

Summary/tagline: "I'm a web developer..."
Strengths:
- Communication
- Driving people to a goal
- Organization
- Product support

When using buzzwords, immediately back it up with why

Skills - Spoken languages: include things like photoshop and Indesign
If learning a new skill, in brackets put (currently acquiring)

Link + tagline due w6d3 (recommend finishing by w6d1)
